{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The DBQ essay can be very intimidating at first. However, the sooner you understand what the object of the DBQ is and what the authors/graders are looking for, it all comes down to how well you can comprehend the primary source documents.\
\
Define the DBQ as an essay where you organize 10-12 documents into 3 categories by analyzing the author's opinion/perspective, and asking yourself: "What does his or her title/position/job tell me about his perspective?". This type of mentality can dramatically increase your score.\
\
For some, the main concern is analyzing POV (point-of-view) for the documents. For others, it may be doing the whole essay itself. In example, here is a brief summary of how to do the 2011 AP Euro DBQ.\
\

\b \ul Step 1:
\b0 \ulnone \
Read the Historical Background. It can really help give a perspective into the time period and possible tips for POV's.\
\
"Elizabeth I of England (reigned 1558-1603) was the daughter of Henry VIII and his second wife, Anne Boleyn. Following the reigns of her half siblings, Edward VI and Mary I , Elizabeth I ascended to the throne at age twenty-five."\
\
We can get a lot of information from this 2-sentence excerpt alone.\

\b - General summary of the documents
\b0  -- Something about Elizabeth I of England who ascended to the throne at age 25. We can assume there will probably be conflicting documents about how people felt about her rise to power or what she was like as a ruler.\
\

\b - Time period (1558-1603)
\b0  -- Some historical background could help, but the documents will most likely clarify what was happening during this period.\
\

\b - Family
\b0  -- This is where outside information can help you. Including outside information about her family and possible influences on Elizabeth will always help you. Any outside information even somewhat related can help you.\
\

\b - Age she began ruling 
\b0 -- 25 seems like a somewhat young age. So this is good information to keep in mind while reading through the perspectives of documents.\
\
As you can tell, there are 4 big points to gain simply from the question itself and its background.\
\

\b \ul Step 2:
\b0 \ulnone \
Read all the documents and categorize them into 3 categories. This part solely relies on your ability to comprehend what the author of the document is saying and his perspective. Here is a simple list of things to watch out for:\
\
\pard\tx6858\pardeftab720\sl340

\b \cf0 - Negative terms: "against, may not, utterly impossible" etc.\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\b \cf0 - Sarcasm:
\b0  Example: in a DBQ about imperialism: "philanthropy is great, but philanthropy at five-percent is even better." Not quite sarcasm, but the author is saying that philanthropy is great, but also earning a 5% interest is even better. It's an economic/humanitarian perspective.\
\

\b - Prolonged sentences and excessive adjectives.
\b0  Try and cut down the sentence in your mind if you can. Sometimes documents have in such a hate bearing tone that they will take 15 words to describe how awful something/someone is and arrive at the point much later.\
\
As for defining categories, generally these templates work.\
- Political\
- Economical\
- Humanitarian (White Man's Burden)\
- Imperialism\
- Nationalism\
- Religion\
- Society\
- Intellectual Development\
\
These 8 categories will generally fit every DBQ the Collegeboard can conjure up.\
\

\b \ul Step 3: (Hardest)
\b0 \ulnone \
\
Analyzing author perspectives and point of view. This skill is Collegeboard\'92s "weeder\'94, it distinguishes between students who can make connections, and those can cannot. POV is simply the ability to make logical connections. Use the template: " It makes sense that ______ (person) holds this position because he is ______" helps get the thoughts flowing.\
\
Let's analyze document 2 from the 2011 DBQ that we talked about earlier.\
\

\b What to write:
\b0  In document 2, Nicholas Heath, archbishop of York, is against the leadership of Elizabeth. Since Heath is an archbishop, he has most likely read the bible and interpreted the role of women as inferior compared to men.  Being the religions man Heath is, it makes sense for him to be against the leadership of a woman.\
\

\b Why
\b0 : When talking about the bible, it is easy to blame the position of a person based on his/her interpretation of the bible since there is infinite number of the ways to interpret the bible.\
\
Many students over-think the POV. POV is straightforward and about making simple connections.\
\
One possible "trick" for how to do a lot better on the POV. Go to art museums and buy/listen to the art descriptions. There are constant POV analyses of art in these recordings and it could very well help you better understand how to analyze an author's -or in this case painter's- POV.\
\

\b Step 4:\

\b0 Write the essay. Before you start, make sure you have brainstormed and mapped out the connections between your various document-pieces. Then use those document pieces and weave them together within a consistant narrative. It may seem like a waste of time to pre-write, but it consistently keeps student\'92s and their work organized, thus yielding dramatically better scores.\
\
\

\b Additional Tips:
\b0 \
\
Make sure to do an introductory paragraph that flows well and is free from glaring grammar errors, graders will sometimes only read the first few lines before administering a score. It may not be fair, but they do have hundreds of papers to do each day. \
\
Concluding paragraphs are not strictly necessary, but if you do choose to include one, make sure it directly echoes the introductory paragraph. Your last sentence should apply the lessons demonstrated within your essay to the greater world. Ex. The administrative tenacity of Queen Elizabeth still serves as an example to \
modern society of the benefits of practical leadership.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}